.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SLACKDUMP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm slackdump
.Nd dump Slack workspace content
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm slackdump
.Ar command Op Cm subcommand
.Op Fl flags
.Op Ar args ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility dumps slack workspace contents.  Currently it supports the
following Slack entities:
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
messages, which includes all messages in all channels, direct, and group messages.
.It 
message replies, or, in other words — threads.
.It 
files are dumped along with messages they belong to.
.It 
emojis, along with their index as a JSON file.
.It 
users, with their profile information.
.It 
and channels.
.El
.Pp
If no command is given, on a dumb terminal, the 
.Ar help
command is assumed.
On an interactive terminal a list of options will be presented, allowing the
user to enter an interactive mode, display help, or exit.
.Sh COMMANDS
The following commands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width workspace
.It Ar help
Display help.
.It Ar export
Export workspace contents.
.It Ar dump
Dump selected channels or threads.
.It Ar record
Export workspace in the internal Chunk format.
.It Ar list
List channels or users in the desired format
.Pq default output is text.
.It Ar emoji
Export Slack workspace emojis.
.It Ar convert
Convert between formats.
.It Ar version
Display version information.
.It Ar workspace
Manage Slack workspaces authentication.
.El
.\"
.Sh USAGE
.Ss Authentication
Slackdump supports multiple authentication methods, listed below.
.Bl -tag -width "token+cookie file"
.It Em EZ-LOGIN 3000
This is the default mode, and is the most convenient one.  It requires no
additional configuration and works out of the box.  However, it is not
supported on all systems.
.It token
This method requires Application or Bot token.
.It token+cookie
This is the pair of token and cookie that you can get from your browser manually
following the instructions in the documentation.
.It token+cookie file
This is the same as above, but it requires the 
.Dq cookie.txt
file.
.El
.\" 
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width SLACK_WORKSPACE
.It Ev BASE_LOC
Contains path to a directory or zip file where all data will be stored.  See
.Fl base
flag for more details.
.It Ev CACHE_DIR
Contains path to a directory where cache files will be stored.  See flag
.Fl cache-dir
for more details.
.It Ev COOKIE
See 
.Ev SLACK_COOKIE
below.
.It Ev DEBUG
If set to
.Dq Ar true
(or any of 
.Dq Ar 1
,
.Dq Ar t
or
.Dq Ar yes
), enables debug output.
.It Ev LOG_FILE
Contains path to a file where log output will be written.
.It Ev SLACK_COOKIE
Contains Slack cookie (for token+cookie-based authentication).  See
.Sx Authentication
for more details.
.It Ev SLACK_TOKEN
Contains Slack token (for token-based authentication).  See
.Sx Authentication
for more details.
.It Ev SLACK_WORKSPACE
Allows to specify Slack workspace name (overrides currently selected
workspace).  See 
.Ar workspace
command for more details.
.It Ev TRACE_FILE
Contains path to a file where trace output will be written.
.El
.\" For sections 1, 6, 7, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh FILES
.\" .Sh EXIT STATUS
.\" For sections 1, 6, and 8 only.
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.\" For sections 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 printf/stderr messages only.
.\" .Sh ERRORS
.\" For sections 2, 3, 4, and 9 errno settings only.
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" .Xr foobar 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.\" .Sh HISTORY
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
was written by
.An Lk https://github.com/rusq "@rusq"
with the help of a number of contributors listed on 
.Lk https://github.com/rusq/slackdump "Slackdump Homepage"
.\" .Sh CAVEATS
.\" .Sh BUGS
.\" .Sh SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
.\" Not used in OpenBSD.
