# Command Dump

## Description

Dump is the mode that allows to dump the following type of conversations:

- public and private channels with threads
- group messages (MPIM)
- private messages (DMs)
- individual threads

It downloads file attachments as well, if the `-files` flag is set.

This is the original low-level mode that applies almost no transformations to
the API output mode of the Slackdump, and its behaviour would be familiar to
those who used it since the very first release.

### IDs or URLs Parameter

The `<IDs or URLs>` parameter should list the IDs of conversations or URLs of
the channel or thread that you'd like to download, for example `C051D4052` is
a channel ID, and `https://ora600.slack.com/archives/DHYNUJ00Y` is a URL of a
private conversation (DM). You can also use an input file with the list of IDs
or URLs or combine file with conversations and individual conversation links.

## Converting JSON Dumps to Other Formats

To convert the JSON file generated by `slackdump dump` to other formats (for
example, text), use `slackdump convert`.  Run `slackdump help convert` to
learn mode.

For reference, in the old version this function was controlled by `-r` flag.

## Examples

### Dump one channel and a DM

This command will also enable file download.

```shell
slackdump dump -files C051D4052 DHYNUJ00Y
```

### Dump channels listed in my_channels.txt

```shell
slackdump dump @my_channels.txt
```

### Dump a single thread

Threads can be specified as a **URL**, or use a Slackdump-specific
**colon notation**.

URL:

```shell
slackdump dump \
  https://ora600.slack.com/archives/C051D4052/p1665917454731419
```

Slackdump colon notation:

```shell
slackdump dump C051D4052:1665917454.731419
```

### Combined all of the above

This example shows how you can combine different types of input. URL of the
thread is omitted for brevity:

```shell
slackdump dump -files C051D4052 \
  DHYNUJ00Y \ 
  @my_channels.txt \
  C051D4052:1665917454.731419
```

_Windows users_: please note that "\" is used on UNIX systems to split the
single command across multiple lines.  The same command can be entered on a
single line with "\" removed, and will have the same effect as the one above.
